# Learning Statement

Let us get straight to the topic.

This portfolio outlines my academic experience at the University of Washington, centering on Honors Courses, Mathematics, and Informatics. If you are looking for a similar experience from a student who has had two pre-major extensions and had been rejected from intended majors a total of 12 times, you are in the right place.

I have always enjoyed the interdisciplinary honors program; it has given me many opportunities to dive into unfamiliar fields while sharing my expertise with people. Nonetheless, being uncertain of a specific goal given the sheer amount of available pathways had given me much pressure, carving the twist and turns of my college life.

At first, going into college probably had my hopes and confidences too high, introducing a mess into my life. I remember going to badminton practices without even a second thought of skipping the review session for a maths exam the next day. I had fun times, but not so many good grades. Eventually, I found it hilarious: I have been getting better grades in VLPA, I&S courses than any of my NW courses, even though I intend to pursue STEM.

After spending two years in a phase of depression superimposed on my nature to explore new ideas and perspectives, my mental capacity was starting to break down. My grades were going up, but my sense of purpose was low. I decided to aim at Mathematics (and AMATH, ACMS) by taking some challenging courses to show my competence. During the summer, I also took some time off by taking HONORS 220 (ENVIR 495C), a nine-day hiking trip in the Olympic National Park under our fantastic guide/instructor Tim Billo. Learning in such a different lens so almost soothing, helping me achieve a kind of inner peace.

The third-year was magical. It was my final stab at Math (the last available non-major Math class I can take) and my second attempt at INFO. Two quarters in, I got myself into Math. Moreover, thanks to my enrollment in the special topic course, INFO 498, I met many Ph.D. Students and Professors. This opportunity jumpstarted one of the most transformative experiences: being a researcher at the GAMER Research Group at the UW iSchool. This year was **THE** turning point of my journey at UW, both academically and emotionally. It was my ticket to Mathematics, Informatics, and a double degree, and I could not wait to start taking some in-major courses finally.

The fourth-year was the year of remote learning. To be honest, not being able to go outside never bothered me. It almost felt too comfortable.

Now it's my final year at UW. I am excited to graduate in June and pursue Graduate studies in Computer Science. Now it is my chance to reclaim the initial path I wanted to take as a freshman. And with me, I will take my growth wherever I go, hoping to chart a bright future of mine.

[[Badminton]]
[[Matrix Algebra]]
[[Memoir...Reflected]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Badminton]: Badminton.md "Badminton"
[Matrix Algebra]: <MATH/Matrix Algebra.md> "The Matrix: Failure"
[Memoir...Reflected]: HONORS/Memoir...Reflected.md "Reflection Paper"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
