# Particle System

Particle systems can be used to simulate many physical phenomena: fire, dust, smoke, water, and more.

A particle system is a collection of point masses that obeys some physical laws (e.g. gravity, heat convection, spring behaviors, ...)

## Particle in a flow field

We begin witha  single particle
$$
x=[x_1 x_2]^T\\
v=\frac{dx}{dt}
$$

Suppose the velocity is actually dictated by a driving function, a vector flow field $v$.

The equation
$$
\frac{dx}{dt}=v(x,t)
$$
is a first order differential equation\dots

We can solve for $x$ through time by starting at an initial point and stepping along the vector field.

This is called an initial value problem and the solution is called an integral curve.

Methods include [[Euler's Method]]

## Particle in a force field

Consider a particle in a force field $f$. The particle has mass $m$ and also acceleration $a$. Assume that the particle obeys Newton's Law. Given a force we can solve for the acceleration:

$$
\frac{d^2x}{dt^2}=\frac{f(x,v,t)}{m}
$$

which is a second order differential equation. We can rewrite the equation

$$
[\frac{dx}{dt} \frac{dv}{dt}]^T=[v \frac{f(x,v,t)}{m}]
$$

giving us a pair of coupled first order equations. When you concatenate $x$ and $v$ to make a 6-vector. Such vector has a position in the [[Phase Space]]. We can also solve this system with [[Euler's Method]]. This is how we represent a particle:

$$
[x v f m]^T
$$

In general we have a particle system consisting of $n$ particles to be managed over time. Again, we can solve the evolution of a particle system using the Euler method.

## Forces

Each particle can experience a force which sends it on its merry way.
- Constant (gravity)
- Position/time dependent  (force fields)
- Velocity-dependent (drag)
- N-ary (springs)

To compute the net force we sum them up.



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Euler's Method]: <Euler's Method> "Euler's Method"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"